Some Assembly Basics:
    Every instruciton in assembly lives in a section, if none is specified, the default is '.text'
    .global means the symbol that follows can be referenced from other .o files as well.
    .extern means, the label that follows is defined in some external .o file
    .section .isr_vector, "a", %progbits
        The "a" is to indicate that .isr_vector section has the ALLOC attribute, if not specified, linker doesnt do this
        The %progbits indicate that the section has the DATA attribute

    Basically unlike the other sections like .text, .data, etc. isr_vector is only defined in the startup assembly code. hence it needs to have attributes like the ones above explicitly mentioned 


Concrete STM32 startup checklist
    Before main():
        ✔ Load initial SP from vector table
        ✔ Enter Thread mode
        ✔ Use MSP (or PSP if RTOS)
        ✔ Zero .bss
        ✔ Copy .data (LMA → VMA)
        ✔ Ensure 8-byte stack alignment
        ✔ Call SystemInit()
        ✔ Call main()

What MUST be done in assembly (and why)
    Assembly is required for only three things:
        Provide the vector table
        Load the initial stack pointer
        Jump to a C function
        Everything else can safely be done in C.

 C assumes certain things are true when main() starts:
    Stack pointer is valid
    .data variables contain initial values
    .bss variables are zero
    CPU is in the right mode:

“How can we initialize variables before the runtime exists?”
There are two very different kinds of “variables”:
    Kind	                        Example	            Needs runtime?
    Automatic (stack) variables	    uint32_t *src;	    ❌ No
    Static / global variables	    static int x;	    ✔ Yes

Why automatic variables are safe?
    void runtime_init(void)
    {
        uint32_t *src;
        uint32_t *dst;


    These variables:
        Live on the stack
        Are created by adjusting SP
        Do not rely on .data or .bss
        And importantly:
        👉 The stack already exists before C runs.

The stack and CPU exist before the C runtime; the C runtime exists before your program logic.

Static variables:
    When you write this outside any function:
        int a = 10;
        int b;
        These are called file-scope objects.
            Key rule from C standard: Any variable defined at file scope has static storage duration by default.
        A) At file scope
            static int x = 5;
            Means:
            Internal linkage (not visible to other .c files)
            Still static storage duration
            Still goes to .data / .bss

        B) Inside a function
            void foo(void) {
                static int y = 3;
            }
            Means:
                Stored once, not on stack
                Lifetime = entire program
                Goes to .data or .bss
                Even though it’s inside a function, it is not automatic.
        
Only "static" storage exists before main().