Setup:
Tools used:
    CMake
    Ninja
    gcc-arm-none-eabi   (using different versions at home and office, but both win build)
        -used gdb.exe
    openocd             (using through msys2 inside mingw64 environment)

1]  
Quickly went through schematic and pin layout
    Created a basic project to blink onboard LED
    TO delete build and start again. go to build repository and:
        $rmdir /s /q CMakeFiles
        $del CMakeCache.txt
    To run the build:
        $cmake -G Ninja -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../toolchain-arm-none-eabi.cmake ..
        $ninja

    To run the program on teh board:
        target remote :3333
        monitor reset halt
        load
        monitor reset halt
        break Reset_Handler
        continue

    Shutdown sequence:
        monitor reset run
        detach
        quit

    Native GDB commands:(These talk to the target CPU state via the GDB remote protocol.)
        - continue
        - step
        - stepi
        - break
        - info registers
        - x/16x 0x08000000

    monitor commands:(These talk directly to OpenOCD, not the CPU. OpenOCD-specific, Not part of GDB, Used for board-level control)
        ->monitor reset halt
        ->monitor halt
        ->monitor flash erase_sector
        ->monitor mdw 0x20000000 4
    halt    -> immediately stops the cpu wherever it is
    reset   -> Asserts the RESET signal ()
            -> Cortex-M core resets:
            -> MSP ← vector[0]
            -> PC ← vector[1]
            -> All core registers return to reset state
            -> Peripherals reset (as per STM32 reset tree)
            -> CPU starts executing immediately
            -> Debugger stays attached but does not stop execution
    monitor <COMMAND>
            -> 
    
Learning:
    1] What is the setup process:
        Step 1 - openocd: 
            Loads interface config
                ST-Link
                SWD protocol
            Loads target config
                STM32F4
                Cortex-M4
            Initializes:
                Debug Access Port (DAP)
                Memory access
                Flash driver
                Halts or resets the core (depending on config)
            At this point OpenOCD has direct control of the MCU, it can: Read/write memory, Halt/resume CPU, Program Flash, Read registers
            But: It has no idea about your source code, No symbols, No main()
        Step 2 — OpenOCD becomes a server
            OpenOCD then opens TCP ports:
            Port	Purpose
            3333	GDB server
            4444	Telnet console
            6666	TCL interface
            OpenOCD is now saying: “If anyone speaks GDB Remote Protocol on port 3333, I’ll translate it to hardware operations.”
        Step 3 — What happens when you start arm-none-eabi-gdb
        You run:
            GDB:
                Loads: the ELF file 
                Reads: Symbols, Sections, Debug info
                Knows: Where Reset_Handler is, Where main is, What variables exist
            But: GDB has no hardware access, It cannot touch the MCU yet
        Step 4 — "target remote :3333"
            This is the handshake. GDB connects to OpenOCD over TCP. They speak GDB Remote Serial Protocol
            GDB says things like: “Read register R0”, “Set breakpoint at 0x08000008”
            OpenOCD translates that into: SWD/JTAG operations, Register reads, Flash patches
            Now: GDB controls execution, OpenOCD controls hardware
        Step 5: what happens when you type continue?
            GDB: Sends continue command to OpenOCD
            OpenOCD: Releases the CPU, Core starts executing from PC
            If the program: Hits a breakpoint → OpenOCD halts CPU → GDB regains control | Crashes → CPU faults → OpenOCD reports halt
        Step 6 — Why OpenOCD needs board config (st_nucleo_f4.cfg)
        That file tells OpenOCD:, Which probe to use (ST-Link), Which transport (SWD), Which MCU (STM32F4), Which Flash driver, Clock speed, Reset behavior
        Without it: OpenOCD doesn’t know how to talk to your board


    2] Reset -> main()
    ResetHandler:   tiny piece of code that runs 1st when a microcontroller resets
                    - is the entry point of your program after a reset event.
                ensures:
                    - Stack pointer(SP) is set coreectly
                    - the .data section(initialized variables) is copied from Flash to RAM
                    - The .bss section (zero initialized variables) is cleared
                    - The system clockand other basic configurations are initialized
                    - Finally the main() funciton is called
                Reset Handler executes after any reset event:
                    Power-On Reset (POR)
                    Manual Reset (reset button)
                    Watchdog Reset
                    Brown-Out Reset
                    Software Reset
    By default, the Vector Table is located at address 0x00000000, typically mapped to Flash. Immediately after reset, the Cortex-M core looks for one thing that is Vector Table
    After a reset (power-on, software, or external), the Cortex-M processor begins execution at address 0x00000000, in Thread mode using the Main Stack Pointer (MSP) by default
        -> Depending on the configuration, thread mode can operate in privileged or unprivileged mode.
    Entry 0 (0x00000000): Initial MSP Value
        The first entry in this table is the initial stack pointer. The core initializes the Main Stack Pointer: MSP ← *(0x00000000).
    Entry 1 (Address 0x0000 0004): Reset Handler Address
        Second entry of the Vector table is the reset handler address. The core loads the address of the first instruction it must execute: PC ← *(0x00000004)
    
    Linker always refers to physical memory addresses.
    Possible reason for VTOR?:
    The vector table can be placed in read-only memory or RAM. Placing it in ROM saves RAM space while locating it in RAM allows dynamic updating of vector addresses

    Step by step reset sequence:
        Reset Triggered: Cortex-M processor begins execution at address 0x00000000, in Thread mode using the Main Stack Pointer (MSP) by default. Depending on the configuration, thread mode can operate in privileged or unprivileged mode.
        Stack Pointer Initialization: The processor reads the initial stack pointer value from address 0x00000000 and loads it into the SP (Stack Pointer) register.
        Program Counter Initialization: the processor reads the reset vector from address 0x00000004, which contains the address of the Reset_Handler. This value is loaded into the Program Counter (PC).
        Jump to Reset_Handler:
        Call to SystemInit():
            Reset_Handler first calls the SystemInit() function, which typically performs:
            Clock configuration (e.g., PLL, XTAL, HSE/HSI setup)
            FPU (Floating Point Unit) settings (if available)
            Vector table base address setup (via VTOR)
            Memory system initialization
        Jump to __main:
            After SystemInit(), the control is transferred to __main, a function provided by the toolchain’s runtime. This is not the same as your application’s main() function.
            __main is responsible for:
                Initializing the C runtime environment
                Copying initialized data from ROM to RAM,
                Zero-initializing the .bss section,.
                Invoking C++ global constructors (if any).
                Finally calling the user-defined main() function
                Call the main function

STM32 Cortex M4 specific:(from programming manual)
    - The processor uses a full descending stack
    - The processor implements two stacks, the main stack(MSP) and the process stack(PSP), with independent copies of the stack pointer
    - In Thread mode, the CONTROL register controls whether the processor uses the main stack or the process stack
    - The VTOR register is a 32-bit writeable CPU register present in all Cortex-M variants
    - On reset, the processor loads the VTOR with the fixed vector table base address which is 0x00000000 for Cortex-M0/M0+ 
    and 0x00000004 for Cortex-M3/M4. This maps the vector table to the start of the code memory region.


Questions:
- What is a Reset Event?
    - reset event in a microcontroller forces it to stop its current operation and return to a known, initial state, like when it first gets power, by clearing registers, reinitializing peripherals, and restarting program execution from the beginning
    - Its address is stored in the Vector Table, which resides at the start of the Flash memory
        For ARM Cortex-M microcontrollers:
            -> The first entry in the vector table: Initial Stack Pointer value
            -> The second entry: Address of the Reset Handler.
    - Reset Handler executes
        Initialize .data and .bss sections in RAM.
        Optionally configure the system clock and peripherals.
        Call SystemInit() (common in CMSIS-based systems).
        Call __libc_init_array() (for C++ constructors).
        Finally, call main().
    - A microcontroller reset circuit is a circuit designed to ensure that a microcontroller (microcontroller) will function properly at startup or under abnormal conditions. The main function of a reset circuit is to restore the internal state and registers of the microcontroller to a known initial state so that program execution can begin
    - RESET CIRCUIT: The reset circuit usually consists of a resistor, capacitor and/or voltage regulator used to generate an appropriate reset pulse signal. This signal is passed to the reset pin of the microcontroller to trigger a reset operation.
    - Reset Vector: During a reset, the microcontroller jumps to a specific reset vector address from where it starts executing the initialization routine. This vector address is usually fixed and determined by the manufacturer of the microcontroller.
- Difference b/w Flash and RAM?
    - Two types of RAM are commonly used in a computer system: dynamic RAM (DRAM) and static RAM (SRAM). 
    - In addition to being the fastest option, SRAM is much more expensive than DRAM, so it is mainly used as the cache memory inside the integrated circuit that is a computer's CPU
    - DRAM is mainly used as the primary operational memory, running the OS and applications.
    - Less expensive still is flash memory. Flash memory is non-volatile and can hold data even without power, unlike RAM. Compared to either type of RAM, flash memory speed is significantly slower
- What is Stack pointer?
    - usually maintained as a LIFO data structure 
    - The stack pointer is initialized only one time in the program.
    - stack incrments when you PULL an item OFF the stack and decrements when u PUSH an item ON the stack
- What is a Program Counter?
    - a special CPU register that holds the memory address of the next instruction to be executed
- What is VTOR(Vector Table Offset Register)?
    - crucial system control register in most ARM Cortex-M processors that specifies the memory address where the processor should look for the start of the vector table
    - VTOR's primary function is to allow developers to relocate this table from its default memory location (typically the start of flash memory, address 0x00000000) to another location, often in SRAM (RAM). 
- Why 0x08000000 instead of 0x00000000 in linker.ld?
    - ARM mandates that the CPU fetches the reset vector from address 0x00000000.
        -ARM Cortex-M specification says:
            On reset:
                Load MSP from address 0x00000000
                Load PC from address 0x00000004
            It does NOT mandate where Flash physically lives.
    - STM32 aliases Flash at 0x08000000 to 0x00000000 at reset.
    -Your linker script:
        FLASH (rx) : ORIGIN = 0x08000000, LENGTH = 512K
        SRAM  (rwx): ORIGIN = 0x20000000, LENGTH = 128K
    This is not describing CPU reset behavior. It is describing: “Where should the linker place sections in the physical memory map of this MCU?”
    This memory map comes from STM32’s silicon design, not ARM.
    STM32F4 uses boot time aliasing at reset: 0x00000000 → alias of selected boot memory, So:
        CPU reads 0x00000000, but Hardware routes that read to Flash at 0x08000000
- Where exactly does the aliasing happen?
    Inside STM32 silicon:
        - AHB bus matrix
        - Address decoder
        - Boot configuration logic
    Proof:
        try:     x/8x 0x00000000 and x/8x 0x08000000    these both return the same values
-Why does "info registers" return the register values even if I havent defined them in code/linker/startup?
    The command reads the CPU’s architectural registers directly via the debug hardware.
    You don’t need to define them. They exist because the Cortex-M core exists.
    They are physically implemented inside the Cortex-M4 core.
    The ARM architecture mandates these registers:
        Core registers (always present)
        Register	Purpose
        r0–r12	General-purpose
        sp (r13)	Stack pointer
        lr (r14)	Link register
        pc (r15)	Program counter
        xPSR	Program status
        MSP / PSP	Stack pointers
        CONTROL	Privilege / stack select
        PRIMASK / BASEPRI	Interrupt masking
    These exist even if flash is empty.

- Why is ORIGIN of SRAM2 specified as "SRAM1 + SRAM1_SIZE - 4" in linker.ld? 


- Why is ORIGIN of SRAM2 specified as "SRAM1 + SRAM1_SIZE - 4" in linker.ld? 

Sources:
https://mohamedayman23.medium.com/inside-the-boot-manager-powering-up-arm-cortex-m-systems-b756f43ce0f5
https://mohamedayman23.medium.com/what-happens-before-main-dfe1a5ce1335
https://s-o-c.org/what-is-vector-table-offset-register-vtor-in-arm-cortex-m-series/
STM32 M4 - Cortex Programming manual
https://www.dmi.unict.it/santoro/teaching/lsm/slides/StartupSTM32.pdf
https://mcyoung.xyz/2021/06/01/linker-script/       -> excellent resource for explaining linking process 
https://lwn.net/Articles/276782/